Connect to Azure SQL DB from PowerQuery
Select the Azure SQL database option in the get data experience.
In Azure SQL database, provide the name of the server and database.
If this is the first time you're connecting to this database, select the authentication kind and input your credentials.
If necessary, select the name of your on-premises data gateway.
If the connection is not encrypted, clear the Use Encrypted Connection check box.

Select Next to continue.

In Navigator, select the data you require, and then select Transform data.

If you uncheck the "Navigate using full hierarchy" box in the advanced options, what will happen in the navigator?
Only tables whose columns and rows contain data will be displayed
If you uncheck "Navigate using full hierarchy," the navigator will only display tables that have data in their columns and rows. The relationship columns will still be included but will not display the entire hierarchy.

What happens if you choose to connect to Azure SQL without encryption? If you choose not to encrypt the connection, you can uncheck the "Use Encrypted Connection" checkbox. It doesn't automatically result in a failure unless the server enforces encryption.

Connect using advanced options
Both Power Query Desktop and Power Query Online provide a set of advanced options that you can add to your query if needed.
Advanced option	Description
Command timeout in minutes	If your connection lasts longer than 10 minutes (the default timeout), you can enter another value in minutes to keep the connection open longer. This option is only available in Power Query Desktop.
SQL statement	For information, go to Import data from a database using native database query.
Include relationship columns	If checked, includes columns that might have relationships to other tables. If this box is cleared, you won’t see those columns.
Navigate using full hierarchy	If checked, the navigator displays the complete hierarchy of tables in the database you're connecting to. If cleared, the navigator displays only the tables whose columns and rows contain data.
Enable SQL Server Failover support	If checked, when a node in the Azure SQL failover group isn't available, Power Query moves from that node to another when failover occurs. If cleared, no failover occurs.

The navigator will display only tables with data
