Errors in powerquery:
step-level errors
cell-level errors

Which of the following could cause a step-level error?
a) Missing values in a column
b) Column renaming in a previous step
c) Incorrectly combining or merging data sources

What is the primary reason for a "Formula.Firewall" error in Power Query?
Combining or merging data sources with conflicting privacy levels

solution for handling a "Formula.Firewall" error?
a) Change the privacy levels of data sources involved.
b) Flatten tables before merging to remove nested structures.
d) Use a shared file path for all users accessing the source.

Which action would remove rows with errors in Power Query?

Correct Answer: b) Select the column containing errors, go to the Reduce Rows group, and click Remove Errors.

When could nested non-scalar values be reported as errors?
a) When the column has the "Any" data type and contains non-scalar values.
b) When privacy levels between data sources conflict.

Which of the following scenarios would result in a "Column of table not found" error?

Correct Answer: b) A step references a column name that no longer exists.


Steplevel prevents query from loading and displays the error componenets due to the following reasons: Column of table not found

Can't find source error reasons:Inaccesssible by user, user does not have correct credentials to accesss data source or file moved to a different place.
Solutions: Change file path to a path both users have access to. 

Column of table wasn't found: triggered when step makes direct reference to col name that doesn't existin querying - possible sol can be to remove the renaming step. 

Formula.firewall error due to: Data privacy levele btwn data sources or the way data sources are being combined or merged.

All the above ar step level errors

Cell level errors will not prevent query from loading but displays error values as Error in cell. How to handle cell level errors: Removing, replacing or keeping the errors or replace values

To remove rows with errors in Power Query select column that contains errors, on home tab in reduce row group select remove rows and select remove errors
same steps for keep errors under keep rows

NestedValues shown as errors: they occur due to the following reasons-
data privacy firewall buffers a data source nested non-scalar values are automatically converted to errors
when colun defined with the Any data type contains non-scalar values such values will be reported as errors during load. 

Possible solutions:
remove column containing suc errors or set as non-any data type for such a clumn
Change privacy levels of data sources involved to one that allows the to be combined without being buffered
flatten tables before doing a merge to eliminate columns that contain nested structured values
