Gateway

Option A is not the best choice as it requires online processing operations, which goes against one of the requirements. A. Create a dataflows connection that has DirectQuery mode selected.

Option B is not necessary since the SQL Server is on-premises and not in a cloud environment. Gateway connections are typically used for cloud-based data sources that require access to on-premises data.

Which of the following is NOT supported by the Power BI gateway (personal mode)?
Correct Answer: b) On-premises Microsoft Exchange Server

What is the best mode to minimize unnecessary processing for accessing on-premises SQL Server data in Power BI?
Correct Answer: b) Import mode with scheduled daily refresh

Configure gateway → Add data source → Add dataset owner → Configure scheduled refresh

What is the primary purpose of a Virtual Network Data Gateway?
Correct Answer: b) Connect from Microsoft Cloud Services to Azure Data Services in VNet

Why is Import mode with scheduled refresh preferred over DirectQuery mode for on-premises SQL Server in most cases?
Correct Answer: b) Import mode minimizes online processing operations



Option D refreshes the data too frequently and might lead to unnecessary processing operations, which goes against one of the requirements.
C. Create a dataflows connection that has Import mode selected and schedule a daily refresh. This minimizes unnecessary online processing operations.

Accessing tables from on-premises Microsoft SQL Server means we alredy need a gateway.

Power BI gateway (personal mode)
On-premises data gateway (personal mode) supports refresh for the following data sources:

All online data sources that appear in Power BI Desktop Get data and Power Query Editor.
All on-premises data sources that appear in Power BI Desktop Get data and Power Query Editor, except for Hadoop files (HDFS) and Microsoft Exchange


If data source is on-premise use on-premise gateway whereas a Virtual network data gateway connect from Microsoft Cloud Services to Azure Data Services within VNet without an on-premise data gateway.  

Gateway steps:
Configure Onprem gateway
Add data source
Add dataset owner
Configure scheduled refresh
