In which two places can a DAX calculated column be used, but a DAX calculated measure cannot be used? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
Unlike a measure, a calculated column can be used in a slicer to place filter options on the report page. DAX measures cannot be placed in the “Filters on this page” well. They can only be placed per visual, in the “Filters on this visual” well of the Filters Pane. Both DAX columns and measures may be used as a visual-level filter. Both DAX columns and measures can be used in the drillthrough well.

The RELATED function retrieves the value at the one-side of the relationship, while the RELATEDTABLE retrieves values on the many-side. The RELATEDTABLE function returns a table object.
When the tables aren't related, you can use the LOOKUPVALUE DAX function.

Discount Amount =
(
    Sales[Order Quantity]
        * RELATED('Product'[List Price])
) - Sales[Sales Amount]

Row context is used when calculated column formulas are evaluated. It's also used when a class of functions, known as iterator functions, are used. Iterator functions provide you with flexibility to create sophisticated summarizations. Iterator functions are described in a later module.

3 ways to add a column in model table:
Add columns to a view or table and then source them in Power Query(works with only relational db)
Add custom columns using M to Power Query queries
Add calculated columns using DAX

When creating a quick measure in Power BI Desktop, you apply calculations to fields. You do not explicitly create a DAX query, but you choose calculations and fields, which result in automatic generation of a DAX query. 
https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/design-model-power-bi/8-lab
https://learn.microsoft.com/training/paths/dax-power-bi/

You need to determine when to use implicit and explicit measures.
What is a feature of an implicit measure that explicit measure does NOT have?
End-users can change the aggregation type of implicit measure from the Values well of a visual.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/dax-power-bi-add-measures/1-introduction

Measures in Microsoft Power BI models are either implicit or explicit. Implicit measures are automatic behaviors that allow visuals to summarize model column data. Explicit measures, also known simply as measures, are calculations that you can add to your model.

Numeric columns support the greatest range of aggregation functions:

Sum
Average
Minimum
Maximum
Count (Distinct)
Count
Standard deviation
Variance
Median

Text columns allow the following aggregations:

First (alphabetically)
Last (alphabetically)
Count (Distinct)
Count
Date columns allow the following aggregations:

Earliest
Latest
Count (Distinct)
Count
Boolean columns allow the following aggregations:

Count (Distinct)
Count

The most significant limitation of implicit measures is that they only work for simple scenarios, meaning that they can only summarize column values that use a specific aggregation function. Implicit measures don't work when the model is queried by using Multidimensional Expressions (MDX). This language expects explicit measures and can't summarize column data. It's used when a Power BI semantic model is queried by using Analyze in Excel or when a Power BI paginated report uses a query that is generated by the MDX graphical query designer.


A column that has a lot of repeated values and a low number of distinct values will have a low cardinality. Reducing the number of distinct values reduces cardinality. Replacing nulls does not change the number of distinct values. A static prefix or suffix does not change cardinality.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/optimize-model-power-bi/4-reduce-cardinality
Cardinality is a term that is used to describe the uniqueness of the values in a column. Cardinality is also used in the context of the relationships between two tables, where it describes the direction of the relationship.


Distinct values count - The total number of different values found in a given column.

Unique values count - The total number of values that only appear once in a given column.
 column that has a lot of repeated values in its range (unique count is low) will have a low level of cardinality. Conversely, a column that has a lot of unique values in its range (unique count is high) will have a high level of cardinality.
https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/optimize-model-power-bi/4-reduce-cardinality

You decide to remove unnecessary columns from your data model.
What are two potential performance benefits of doing this?
increasing the refresh speed, reducing the size of the data model
Fewer columns mean there is less data to import and will reduce the model size and decrease the time it takes to refresh the model. Since row counts aren’t changing, the calculation speed of any existing DAX measures won’t change. Report page load times are primarily determined by number of visuals (objects) on the page, and DAX performance. Neither of which are impacted by unnecessary model columns.

The Performance analyzer will show the query timings for each object on a report page. Session diagnostics measures Power Query query performance as it relates to refresh times. It is unrelated to measuring DAX performance or report page query timings. The Best Practices analyzer reviews the model for best practices around things like model design, relationships, field naming conventions, and measures. But is unrelated to any query timings for report page visuals.
https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/optimize-model-power-bi/2-performance

The CALENDARAUTO function generates a range of dates based on the earliest and latest date within the dataset. The CALENDAR function generates a range of dates, but it requires providing the start and end date.
The DATE function returns the specified date in the datetime format. The DATEDIFF function returns an interval between two dates.

The Contributor role is the least privileged role that grants permissions to schedule data refreshes. The Member role grants permission to schedule data refreshes but is more privileged than Contributor. The Admin role grants the permissions to schedule data refreshes but is more privileged than Member. The Viewer role does not grant the permissions to schedule data refreshes.


Admin
Update and delete the workspace
Add or remove people, including other admins
Member
Add members or others with lower permissions
Publish, unpublish, and change permissions for an app
Contributor
Create, edit, and delete content, such as reports, in the workspace
Publish reports to the workspace
Viewer
View and interact with an item
Read data that's stored in workspace dataflows

An app is a published, read-only window into your data for mass distribution and viewing. When ready to share apps with your users, you can publish the app. This process requires a Power BI Pro license. Consuming and viewing an app also requires a Pro license, or the workspace must be hosted in a Premium capacity.

What is the number of consecutive refresh failures of DS1 that will automatically disable the refresh schedule? 4
Power BI deactivates your refresh schedule after four consecutive failures or when the service detects an unrecoverable error that requires a configuration update, such as invalid or expired credentials. It is not possible to change the consecutive failures threshold.

You have a Power BI dashboard that is comprised of pinned visuals that are taken from a variety of reports.
Which three objects from a report page can be pinned to the dashboard?
Custom visual, Image, Ribbon chart
Individual filters and slicers cannot be pinned to a dashboard. This is because dashboards are designed to be an “at-a-glance” perspective. Reports are built to be filtered and interactive. Custom visuals, ribbon charts, and images can be pinned from a report page.

Dashboards have static tiles, read-only tiles, is only a single page and created only in service.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/create-dashboards-power-bi/1-introduction

Activating the View as feature will allow you test the row-level security as someone with the Salesperson role. A what-if parameter is intended for visualization and analytics of results of changing a value of a variable, not validating row-level security. Adding a DAX expression filter to the Salesperson table is part of implementing row-level security, which is already completed. A conditional column is computed from other columns or values.
https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/row-level-security-power-bi/2-static-method


In Power BI Desktop, you need to create a role.
Which two interfaces can you use? Report view and Model view

The Key influencers visual helps you understand correlated factors impacting a particular metric. The Q&A visual allows end-users to ask natural language questions to create AI generated charts based on the questions.

The Decomposition Tree visual lets you visualize data between multiple dimensions and drill down in any order. The Smart Narrative visual lets you combine natural language text with metrics from your model in sentence forms.

Number data types display well on a continuous (range) axis where report users understand the order between min and max values. Binary data and text (categorical) data cannot be displayed on a continuous (range) axis. Date, time, or number are the only data types comparable with a continuous axis.


An on-premises gateway is designed to allow multiple users to access multiple data sources. An on-premises data gateway only allows one user to access multiple data sources. A virtual network data gateway is designed to allow multiple users to access multiple online data sources. However, it isn’t installed locally and only works with data sources secured by virtual networks.
https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/manage-datasets-power-bi/4-power-bi-gateway
https://learn.microsoft.com/power-bi/connect-data/service-gateway-onprem





