Adding a separate date dimension table that includes year, month, and week information is the optimal approach which provides the required functionality, while minimizing the model size and administrative effort. Adding a year, month, and week columns to the fact table would increase the amount of administrative effort. Enabling the Auto date/time global or current file option would increase the model size. In addition, it would not provide the ability to describe weekly time periods (only year, quarter, month, and day).

The CALENDAR function returns a table with a column named Date that contains a contiguous set of dates based on the start date and end date that you specify. The CALENDARAUTO function returns a table with a column named Date that contains a contiguous set of dates based on data in the model.

DAX Studio, once connected to the data model, can be used to clear the data engine cache. The Clear Cache function can be invoked from DAX Studio, once you connect it to the data model. The Refresh Metadata function can be invoked from DAX Studio to update the metadata of the currently selected model. Adding a blank page to the .pbix file and selecting it is the first step in clearing the visual cache, not the data engine cache.


The CALENDARAUTO function generates a range of dates based on the earliest and latest date within the dataset. The CALENDAR function generates a range of dates, but it requires providing the start and end date. The DATE function returns the specified date in the datetime format. The DATEDIFF function returns an interval between two dates.

https://learn.microsoft.com/training/modules/power-bi-effective-user-experience/
https://learn.microsoft.com/power-bi/consumer/end-user-bookmarks 

CALENDARAUTO generates a contiguous set of dates based on the data in the model, ensuring there are no gaps.

DAX Studio provides the Clear Cache option to reset the data engine cache, which is separate from the visual cache.

Adding multiple date columns to the fact table increases model size and redundancy, making administration more complex and inefficient. Using a date dimension resolves these issues.

CALENDARAUTO automatically expands the range to cover the full years of the earliest and latest dates. Therefore, the range will be January 1, 2022, to March 31, 2023.

CALENDARAUTO requires at least one date column in the dataset. If no date columns exist, it will throw an error.

Clearing the visual cache is done directly in Power BI Desktop (by switching to a blank page). Clearing the data engine cache must be performed in DAX Studio or similar tools.

Refreshing metadata in DAX Studio updates the model's schema to reflect any recent structural changes (e.g., new tables, relationships). It does not refresh or recalculate datasets.

returns last day of each month : FILTER('Date', EOMONTH('Date'[Date], 0) = 'Date'[Date])

Clearing the data engine cache resolves model-level calculation issues, while clearing the visual cache resolves only local rendering issues.
The WEEKDAY function with a return type of 2 starts the week on Monday, making 6 (Saturday) and 7 (Sunday) correspond to weekends.
IF(WEEKDAY('Date'[Date], 2) >= 6, "Weekend", "Weekday")


